How to Run Synthesia2MIDI (non-technical)

This file is for people who just want to use the app.

Windows 10 and Windows 11
1) If you downloaded a zip, right-click it and choose Extract All. On Windows 11, if you do not see it, click "Show more options".
2) Open the extracted folder. Keep all files together.
3) Double-click setup_windows.bat.
   - If a blue "Windows protected your PC" screen appears, click "More info" then "Run anyway".
   - If you are asked for permission, click Yes.
4) Wait. A black window will show setup messages. Do not close it.
5) The app should open. If it does not open, look at the black window for errors and use the fixes below.
6) When the app opens, click "Open Local Video File" to pick a video, or "Download from YouTube" to paste a link.
7) Next time, you can double-click synthesia2midi\run.bat to start faster. If that fails, run setup_windows.bat again.

If you see a permissions error:
- Move the folder to Documents or Desktop and run setup_windows.bat again.
- On Windows 11, right-click setup_windows.bat, choose "Show more options", then "Run as administrator" if needed.

If you see "FFmpeg is missing":
- This is only needed for YouTube downloads and some video conversions. If you are not using those, you can skip this.
1) Download FFmpeg from https://www.gyan.dev/ffmpeg/builds/ffmpeg-release-essentials.zip
2) Open the zip, go into the "bin" folder, and copy ffmpeg.exe
3) In this app folder, create a folder named "ffmpeg" inside "synthesia2midi"
4) Paste ffmpeg.exe into:
   synthesia2midi\ffmpeg\ffmpeg.exe
5) Run setup_windows.bat again.

Mac (macOS)
1) If you downloaded a zip, double-click it to extract.
2) Open the extracted folder. Keep all files together.
3) First-time setup: right-click setup.sh and choose Open With -> Terminal.
   - If macOS blocks it, right-click setup.sh, choose Open, then click Open.
   - You might have to allow it in System Settings -> Privacy and Security -> Open Anyway.
4) Wait. A Terminal window will show setup messages. Do not close it.
5) The app should open. If it does not open, use the fixes below.
6) When the app opens, click "Open Local Video File" to pick a video, or "Download from YouTube" to paste a link.

Starting it later:
- Double-click run_mac.command. Leave the Terminal window open while the app is running.

If you see "Python 3 was not found":
- The setup window will tell you how to install Python. Follow its instructions, then run setup.sh again.

If you see "FFmpeg not found":
- This is only needed for YouTube downloads and some video conversions. If you are not using those, you can skip this.
1) Open Terminal (you can use the same Terminal window).
2) Copy and paste this:
   brew install ffmpeg
3) If it says "brew: command not found", install Homebrew from https://brew.sh, then run the command again.
